isn't it the case that we should always
stay true to ourselves
which means that we ought to know who we
are and
organize our lives in ways that are
compatible with our personalities
when we look for a partner for example
we look for someone that we're
compatible with and in regards to
education and work we need to do
something that fits our characteristics
however not knowing who we are seems to
be a problem
but luckily this problem can be solved
by taking a personality test
by talking to a counselor or perhaps by
going on a long solo trip
around the world to quote unquote find
ourselves
because after all our true selves lie
somewhere hidden deep
within right well
according to michael poet harvard
professor of chinese history
and author of the book the path this way
of
thinking is extremely limited and even
dangerous
when it comes to how we live our lives
in chinese philosophy there's no fixed
self
the way we see it in the western world
who we are
and what we could become is much more
tangible than a fixed
set of characteristics that define a
personality
this eastern self is always evolving
changing
losing and gaining and isn't so much
defined by what's within
but by what we do so it cannot be found
but it can be cultivated
self-cultivation
is a psychological process that's part
of the ancient chinese system of thought
called confusionism its founder
confucius
firmly believed in the power of ritual
and how it can make our lives
better the word ritual may sound a
little bit
old-fashioned and intended for either
religious people
or those who are indoctrinated by some
kind of ideology
but the power of ritual is vastly
underestimated
confucius realized that rituals and
ceremonies
are actually forms of social cement
their transformative nature
not only shapes societies it also shapes
ourselves therefore engaging in certain
behaviors
in a disciplined manner simple things
like morning rituals
habits exercises can bring about
incredible change
way beyond our limiting beliefs that
unfortunately
dictate the lives of many
this video explores the art of becoming
better
based on the teachings of confucius
confucius was a philosopher and
politician in ancient
china born in the 6th century bc in the
vessel state of
lou because of his dissatisfaction with
a ruling aristocrat
he created a way of life and governance
that later became known
as confucianism the confusion teachings
which would later determine the lives of
millions of people
are still more than relevant in modern
day china
confucius emphasized morality order and
respect
and is geared towards social harmony
which can be achieved
through traditions ceremonies and of
course
rituals here we see a fundamental
difference
between confucianism and its counterpart
taoism
taoist sage zhuangzi for example pleaded
against
these artificial ways of living that
will only disturb
the natural course of things a taoist
embraces
our natural state and approaches life
conformable to the flow of nature with
minimal interference
a confusionist however acknowledges our
inborn natural state
but sees us humans as diamonds in the
rough
as agents of great potential because
through practice and training we can
become better
more skilled at life more integrated
more virtuous
self-cultivation is about enhancing and
perfecting how we act
and relate to each other which can bring
about tremendous positive change
on a personal level as well as a
communal level
so how does this self-cultivation work
to understand this
we first need to understand the self
with the help of personality tests
counselors
and self-help books we seem to have
totally figured out who we are
some people even fetishize their newly
found personality type
as they fully identify themselves with
it to a point
that they cling to it unfortunately this
enchants
them to a very limited view of who they
are
michael poet is very clear about one
aspect
of modern western civilization he stated
that the way we think about the self
is wrong as opposed to existing beliefs
the chinese
view the self as a fragmented non-fixed
phenomenon
it's not something we can find if we go
within
instead puett describes the self as a
mess
thus we're all a bunch of messes meaning
that what we perceive as the self is a
gathering of decentralized
manifestations
like emotions thoughts and many other
sensations
we could compare it to a buddhist
concept called anata
which means no self being a mess
may seem like a bad thing but it's
actually very liberating
usually people believe that who they are
is
more or less unchangeable this is just
who i
am one could say when reflecting on the
fact that he
or she is easily angry having a short
fuse
in this case is seen as part of a
personality
or in some cases as part of culture
but this view is very limited it's even
potentially dangerous
to believe that certain behavioral
patterns cannot be changed
as we keep finding ourselves in the same
destructive situations over and over
again like abusive relationships
substance abuse or criminal activities
that land us in prison why because we
believe that we can't
change things for the better in the age
of individualism
we might think that we're free because
we refuse to follow conventions
distance ourselves from collectivism and
don't engage
in these ridiculous old-fashioned ritual
practices
no we're liberated we're free
to be our authentic selves but the
danger of taking such a stance
is that we become rigid in regards to
who we are
we might find ourselves becoming
eccentric to such a degree
that the world becomes alien and even
hostile to us
and vice versa we might forget that for
a great part
this condition is a choice not
a condemnation
what we think we are is always changing
evolving
reacting to outside circumstances this
makes us far more malleable than we
think
self-cultivation is the art of using
this malleability
to our advantage so we stop focusing on
who we are
but instead on what we can become
now how does this work
self-cultivation can be used to enhance
and perfect ourselves
in ways that improve the quality of life
in confucianism
we basically ought to cultivate
ourselves into better people
in regards to virtue but the essence of
cultivation can work into any direction
meaning that we can also cultivate bad
habits
but let's assume that we all have the
same goal
a state of flourishing in that case
context is important it requires a
sensitivity
for which behaviors optimally fit
certain circumstances
eventually we might find out that our
current behavior is getting us nowhere
so we decide to change it we decide to
become
better but how well
it's essential to realize that we're
basically a bundle of patterns
oftentimes we aren't even aware of these
patterns and how they keep us from
looking beyond our possibilities as poet
stated
our habits limit what we can see access
sense and no so it's almost impossible
to change
unless we apply the cure
ritual
now what characterizes rituals is that
we momentarily break
with the mundane or with our normal
state
we experience an immediate interruption
of our existing patterns and adopt
new ones even if it's just for a brief
moment
however as confucius realized engaging
in these rituals periodically
will result in long-term changes over
time
let's take a look at the remembrance of
the dead for example which is a dutch
ritual
held annually on the 4th of may the goal
of this ritual
is to commemorate all civilians and
members of the armed forces of the
kingdom of the netherlands who have died
in wars
or peacekeeping missions since the
beginning of the second world war
during this civil ritual not only damn
square in amsterdam
but also dutch living rooms public
spaces cars
restaurants shops and work environments
transform
in momentary ritual spaces the heart of
the ceremony
is two minutes of silence which is then
followed by the national anthem
for participants this ritual breaks with
their everyday lives
by taking part in it we temporarily let
go of our usual behavior
and take on our role that of a dutch
citizen
who is deeply connected with a
collective past and to dutch identity
with all its values and beliefs
like liberty and tolerance now this is
where the magic happens
according to annual research this ritual
as a whole
and the emotions and thoughts that are
involved evokes feelings of solidarity
and connectedness
it basically helps to keep the dutch
dutch
so for a community ritual not only
functions as social cement
it also changes its members
psychologically
confucius realized this more than 2 500
years ago
hence his teachings emphasize the
importance of
ritual but how can we use this mechanism
to better ourselves
especially when we don't live in a
ritualistic community
when confucius entered the grand temple
he asked about
everything someone said who said
confucius
is a master of ritual he enters the
grand
temple and asks about everything
confucius hearing this
said this is the ritual
end quote in an individualistic society
existing conventions can be ritualized
drinking our morning tea or having a
short chat with a cashier of our local
supermarket
every saturday morning can be rituals
for self-cultivation we need rituals
that are transformative
meaning that they break existing
patterns again
and again which brings about gradual
change
let's say you're considered a negative
cynical person
if you would engage in any conversation
you'll most likely come across
as bitter chances are that people don't
like to converse with you
for that reason which leads to
loneliness
and resentment now you could say
stubbornly
well this is who i am i'm authentic
people should accept me for who i am
however the issue with this attitude is
that
according to the chinese view this is
not who you
inherently are you can change by
breaking these patterns
through self-cultivation this means that
you need to perform rituals that create
what poet calls
as if moment in which we purposefully
act
differently this is also known as fake
it
till you make it instead of being
authentically miserable
we could repeatedly and consequently be
inauthentically joyful
over time we'll discover that being
joyous becomes a characteristic
the same goes with talking to people we
find attractive
we may identify as shy but when we
decide to act
confidently as if we are temporarily a
different person
this behavior will eventually become
habitual
so isn't that liberating instead of
being enchained to a certain personality
we are able to change ourselves by
changing our behaviors
fears can be overcome a-holes can become
pleasant and kind
and destructive relationships can turn
into flourishing beacons of joy
of course self-cultivation takes work
life is like playing
a musical instrument if we keep
practicing we become better at it
but if we stop our skill will
deteriorate
so we need to continually fine tune and
change
our patterns for the better so at the
end of the day
what self-cultivation comes down to is
this be the change that you want to see
in this case in yourself
thank you for watching
[Music]
so
you